<!-- title: Welcome to Basking Meadow Bog -->
<!-- author: Alewife -->
## Welcome to Basking Meadow Bog

Greetings and salutations gentle spirits, feral goblins, and all those who lay betwixt! I am the Bogfolk's own Alewife and this is the introductory post for the chronicle of my #dungeon23 project: Basking Meadow Bog.

Every **insert day of the week here** I'll post an overview/highlight reel of that week's entries and modifications, along with additional musings, sketches, and map iterations.

For starters, I'll define what #dungeon23 means to me, as well as my personal parameters that I hope to adhere to. Ultimately how you engage (or if you engage at all!) with your own versions of this project is entirely up to you. I highly encourage you to see what formats and guidelines others are using, along with taking a look at the various resources that some wonderful people have come up with. 

I find it now relevant to note that I majored in philosophy while in college, (though I had the good sense to not finish my bachelor's and instead get an associates) and as a result my brain is thoroughly poisoned by that well. Here we go!

#### What Even *is* a Room?

To prevent myself from drinking too deeply of the aforementioned well, I try to take a very pragmatic view of what constitutes a room, which is 
>"a section of your 'dungeon' (more to come on this!) that is of sufficient size to qualify as discrete, whatever you may manage on any given day."

Which is to say, if the only thing I have the energy to do on a day, or I've got too much other shit going on, something like this is good enough.
>"a dense patch of brooding, gnarled black spruce. You can barely make out the entrance to some burrows hidden amongs the roots and tussocks."
 

As wise person Playful Void said (in a post I will be linking below) 
>"don’t write well, write anything. I can improve a bad dungeon. I can’t improve no dungeon." 

I think this is an excellent opening statement, which is why I buried the lede in personal contextualizations. Really the important takeaway here for me is that you're only accountable to yourself (unless you decided to, idk, make a blog about it) and that getting in the habit of daily creative practice can be very healthy. If nothing else comes of this project for you, that's good enough.   

#### What Even *is* a Megadungeon?


People far more versed in designing, implementing, running, and playing dungeons have waxed philosophical and poetic on this subject with far more wit, wisdom, and werewithal than I have to offer. In light of the context of the first question about rooms, I think it worthwhile to extend the same grace to the dungeon as a whole. To that extent I think that conceptuallizing "a dungeon" as simply a fantastic site to be explored and interacted with. From there we can extrapolate that a megadungeon is a large complex or region to be explored and interacted with, sufficient to stage a whole campaign around.

I'll state for the record that I'm a huge poser and haven't ever played in a megadungeon campaign, let alone run/read (stygian library and gardens of ynn are on my research list tho!) or designed one, so my ideas about what constitues a megadungeon is pretty much purely based off "what if dungeon, but mega?" and the words of people who's opinions and work I tend to respect.

So I'm doing a setting based on the bog that I live near. It's a beautiful place that you will certainly be seeing pictures of in the weeks to come. I'll be trying to make it as system agnostic as possible, but the three systems that will primarily guiding my hand are: Mausritter, Mörk Borg, and Errant. Factions/cultures of various woodland mammals, moose as elemental forces of nature, bastard-ass seasonal waterfowl, year-round raptors, and a dramatic seasonal cycle.

#### Banking Days or: 
###### There's a Fine Line Between Meal Prep and Making 3 Big-Ass Meals in One Day and Throwing Out Spoiled Food Two Weeks Later

Wow, that's an oddly specific subtitle isn't it? Anyway, It Is Known that a lot of us are neurodivergent, disabled, or both. The range of conflicting aptitudes, access needs, capacities, capabilities, and necessities is massive and beyond the scope of my own to describe.

 That said, ADHD, specifically, has been a Known and Powerful force in my life for over 30 years, and having that framing and context for vast majority of my existence has instilled me with a variety of coping mechanisms, mal/adaptations, and protocols for managing this kind of shit (tbh it's normally not well, but here we are). Time management isn't something a lot of us are good at, but it's also important to ride the wave of energy/inspiration/motivation when it strikes, yet leaning into that can easily lead to burn out and this cycle is probably familiar to many of you (it might even cause you fatigue just to think about it! if that's so, I'm very sorry).

Personally I'm extending myself the grace to not be specific about how many days I can bank up at any given time. I'm even starting 3 weeks ahead of time but not counting it as 13 months! (my journal starts in january anyway so) On one hand my other external obligations and time restrictions will make it so I don't end up spending too much time at once on something that should be small daily chunks, but on the other it makes ensuring that I don't expend so much energy in a day that I can't get my other shit done. What a cycle hunh?

### On Materials and Methods

Before I started physical therapy as a child I was in the 4th percentile for fine motor skills and the 17th percentile for gross motor skills. Being in a body is weird and difficult a lot of the time! Doing new things with my hands is usually awkward, uncomfortable and frustrating, so having tools that are comfortable, familiar and aesthetically pleasing is important, or else I won't get fuckall done. 

More than anything else the most important tool that I use is a pilot g2.  I've struggled with pretty much every writing implement I had to use as a child, and after encountering the pilot g2 for the first time during high school in the early 00s, they've been one of two writing implements that I always carried on me (the other is a standard sharpie but I'm probably not gonna use them much on this project). 0.7 is my primary size for writing, but I utilize the 0.5 and 1.0 for illustration as well. I could gush about the pilot g2 ad nauseum, and maybe I will at some point, but I feel like they're ubiquitious enough that if you're not familiar, you should just go out and buy some and Have An Experience.

I'll be using a Hobonichi Techo Weeks for the primary scribing, but that's not scheduled to show up till December 28 so I'm using a leuchtturm1917 bullet journal that I've had since 2018 but haven't filled up yet in the interim. I personally find the lack of structure on a blank dot grid to be a bit overwhelming for arranging different text fields, so I'm very excited for the calendar/planner layout of the Hobonichi. I'm of course using one of those because the brain-genius behind #dungeon23 Sean McCoy is doing so.

I settled on the Hobonichi not only because I love when people smarter than me do work that I can piggyback off, but because my initial plan to use some of the fabulous free resources that people have created to be a non-starter since my printer is older than some of the people reading this and can't print shit for shit. Turns out a new journal is cheaper and will show up more quickly than a new printer.

Beyond that for the maps, sketches, and other illustrations I'll be using a variety of implements, so this will also be a bit of an adventure through developing illustration skills. How fun! 

What I've got so far:

* Uni Kuru Toga mechanical pencil
* Koi black coloring brush pen
* Faber-Castell pitt artist pen in
	* Black
	* Warm grey III
	* Cold grey III
	* Warm grey IV
	* Cold grey IV
	* Warm grey V
	* Cold grey VI
* Tombow black double-headed artist brush pen
* Noodler's Charlie
* Twsbi Swipe
* Noodler's Heart of Darkness

I've also got a bunch of old drafting/calligraphy stuff from when my mom was in college in the 70s so expect some of that stuff to make an appearance as well, I'll try to mention it by name if I know or can tell what it is.


### Resources and Links
Here are some particular blogs and resources that I found very helpful.

[Playful void's personal parameter philosophy strongly influenced my own](https://playfulvoid.game.blog/2022/12/12/preparing-for-a-mega-dungeon-dungeon23-templates-and-principles/)

[The LICHES method of descriptive text](https://www.tumblr.com/barilleon/701237611609686016/the-liches-method-of-descriptive-text)

[Dungeon Design Digital Worksheets](https://alldeadgenerations.blogspot.com/2022/12/dungeon23-worksheets.html)

[The Dungeon Architect's Workbook](https://zwgarth.itch.io/dungeon-workbook)

 












